Introduction
############

This guide is designed to assist program administrators of residential energy
efficiency programs with the implementation of the Building Performance
Institute (BPI) BPI-2100 and BPI-2200 data standards commonly referred to as
("HPXML").  The adoption of these data standards offers programs a wealth of
opportunities to grow your energy efficiency initiatives, while significantly
reducing your costs. Combined with the companion technical guide for software
implementers, this document should provide you with the tools you need to
identify the potential for data standards in your jurisdiction and give you the
basic guidance for developing an implementation plan that meets your program
needs.

What are the BPI Data Standards?
********************************

The BPI data standards are designed to  help you collect and transfer
information about residential building characteristics and project information.
You can share this data with any party involved in a home performance or
energy-efficiency program, including contractors, program administrators,
utilities, federal agencies, and others. In addition, HPXML allows home performance data 
to be seemlessly shared with the financial, real estate, insurance, and other 
appropriate industries. This gives you a standardized way to
collect project information and to share that information to facilitate market
growth.

The two primary data standards, BPI-2100 and BPI-2200 are closely related and
are used together to implement HPXML:

BPI-2100-S-2013: Standard for Home Performance-Related Data Transfer
    provides requirements for an extensible markup language (XML) standard
    data transfer protocol that can be used to transfer home
    performance-related data.

BPI-2200-S-2013: Standard for Home Performance-Related Data Collection 
    provides a standard vocabulary for describing terms related to
    buildings, energy consumption, and energy conservation measures. Each of
    the data elements defined in BPI-2200 can be transferred using HPXML via
    the methodology outlined in BPI-2100.    

BPI is developing additional data collection standards, each of which specify a
set of data elements to be collected at specific points during the
implementation of an energy efficiency program (e.g. the audit, test out, QA,
etc.). While HPXML is capable of transferring a wide variety of data elements,
any one program or jurisdiction will only need a small sub-set for most uses.
To facilitate adoption of the data standards and to reduce variation between
jurisdictions, which can be costly for software providers and contractors, BPI
WG-5 has collaborated with programs to develop: [BECAUSE THIS IS GOING ON A FEDERAL SITE, WE HAVE TO BE SENSITIVE TO ANY OTHER ORGS WHO ARE CONDUCTING ACTIVITIES OR DEVELOPING STANDARDS OR GUIDANCE THAT COULD ALSO BE USEFUL TO STAKEHOLDERS.  IS ANYONE ELSE BEYOND BPI LIKE ACCA OR RESNET OR ASHRAE OR ANYONE ELSE DOING ANYTHING IN THIS SPACE THAT WE SHOULD BE AWARE OF AND INCLUDE IN THIS GUIDE?]

BPI-2101-S-2013: Standard Requirements for a Certificate of Completion for Residential Energy Efficiency Upgrades
    to identify a standard set of data elements for certificates that
    document the completion of a whole-house energy upgrade (HEU) and
    individual energy conservation measures (ECMs). The set of data elements
    required for inclusion in the certificate will provide a clear,
    easy-to-understand description of the HEU or ECMs, including information
    about major energy-related improvements implemented and, if relevant,
    predicted energy savings or other performance indicators. The certificate
    can be designed to be used as a reference document by real estate agents,
    appraisers, and other professionals during the home sale process, and can
    be uploaded into Multiple Listing Service (MLS) databases.

Draft: Standard for Home Energy Auditing Data Collection with Energy Modeling Tools
    This draft standard represents the minimum data necessary for energy
    modeling tools to capture during an energy audit and transfer by HPXML to
    Home Performance type programs. The standard is designed to promote
    consistency between programs and facilitate cost efficiency in the
    implementation of HPXML through alignment to a standardized specification.

Draft: Standard for Home Energy Job Completion Data Collection with Energy Modeling Tools
    This draft standard represents the minimum required data necessary to be
    captured by energy modeling tools to capture during a home energy retrofit
    and transfer by HPXML to Home Performance type programs. The standard is
    designed to promote consistency between programs and facilitate cost
    efficiency in the implementation of HPXML through alignment to a
    standardized specification.

The Role of BPI Working Group 5
*******************************

BPI Working Group 5 (BPI WG-5) is a volunteer effort with representation from
program administrators, implementers, software developers, and government
agencies. The group is an official  Building Performance Institute committee
tasked with developing and maintaining standards related to the collection and
transfer of energy efficiency and home performance-related data.  BPI WG-5 is
responsible for maintaining the standard and works to ensure that the standards
can meet the needs of various market actors.  As a program administrator, you
will want to familiarize yourself with this group, as they can serve as an
invaluable resource to assist in the implementation of the BPI data standards,
facilitate changes in the standard, and answer questions that you may have
about the standards. To contact the BPI WG-5 or to get involved, email them at
Julie.Caracino@nyserda.ny.gov. [IT WOULD BE PREFERABLE TO INCLUDE A GENERIC EMAIL ADDRESS LIKE HPXML@BPI.ORG INSTEAD OF A PERSON'S EMAIL ADDRESS IN A GUIDE LIKE THIS. OTHERWISE, WE COULD HAVE THEM GO TO HOMEPERFORMANCE@ENERGYSTAR.GOV]

Data Standards and the DOE's Building Energy Data Exchange Specification (BEDES)
********************************************************************************

The BPI data standards were developed to serve the single family residential
sector (i.e. 1-4 unit buildings). Since the creation of HPXML, and with shared
objectives, the US Department of Energy has begun the development of the
Building Energy Data Exchange Specification, referred to as BEDES (pronounced
"beads" or /bi:ds/). BEDES is a dictionary of terms, definitions, and field
formats which was created to help facilitate the exchange of information on
building characteristics and energy use. It is intended to be used in tools and
activities that help stakeholders make energy investment decisions, track
building performance, and implement energy-efficient policies and programs.

Since the initiation of the BEDES effort, BPI WG-5 and representatives from the
DOE have coordinated efforts in order to maintain interoperability between the
two standards.  The primary difference between the two efforts is one of scope,
as the BPI data standards are designed for single-family residences, while
BEDES is designed to include all building types â€” both commercial and
residential.

For more information on BEDES, visit:
http://energy.gov/eere/buildings/building-energy-data-exchange-specification-bedes
[THIS WEB ADDRESS IS NOT WORKING FOR ME.]
